Copyright (c) Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, 1988-2011.

HOW TO INSTALL ABC ON A UNIX SYSTEM:

You will need 2.5 megabytes in total to compile and load the ABC system.
To start type:

        ./Setup

which will ask you some questions to set the ABC system up on your
installation.  You can call "Setup" any number of times without spoiling
files.  So run it once to see what questions you will be asked.  If you
don't know the answer to some question, you can run it again.

        make all

will compile and load the ABC system, producing the programs "abc" and
"abckeys" locally in this directory.  You can test the ABC interpreter with:

        make examples

This runs some examples in ./ex. It does not test the ABC editor, however;
that can only be done interactively with

        make try_editor

Consult the sheet "HOW TO TRY THE ABC EDITOR" (also in ./EDITOR).

If all is well and you want to make ABC public

        make install

will do some compiling to get the right pathnames in, and install the binaries
"abc" and "abckeys", the "abc.1" manual file, and the auxiliary files in the
directories you indicated during setup.  Finally

        make clean

will clean all intermediate object files from the source directories.

If you have made ABC public, all necessary files have been copied to the
public places, and you can get rid of the entire ABC source directory.

HOW TO TACKLE PROBLEMS DURING INSTALLATION:

If there are any problems, don't panic. See ./PROBLEMS for advice.  Also
edit the example Bug Report form in ./doc to communicate the problem to us.
We can then send out diffs for fixed problems in the future.

Currently the system doesn't seem to run properly on systems where the
length of an integer is different to the length of a pointer; this
means on 64 bit systems you should compile as a 32 bit binary.

You need to have a termcap-compatible library installed. On Ubuntu go
to the Ubuntu Software Centre, and search for and install
libncurses5-dev (or similarly, from a terminal run
		sudo apt-get install libncurses5-dev
).

Above all, we would be very grateful to receive any comments you have about
the setup procedure, or the ABC system in general, on how to make it easier
to use.

HOW TO PORT ABC TO OTHER OPERATING SYSTEMS:

If you want to port ABC to another system, consult ./generic/README.

Good luck!
